**Guide:** inquiries should include the problem, a proposed solution, and information on the organization.

**Status:** program wasn't really active, so it was not accepted in any way

---

Letter of Inquiry | Unfold Research <br />
<small>IBM Impact Grant</small>

### Description
A web platform for academics, driven by the points-based mechanics, that
can open a pathway to all of Open Science and its principles, and has an
interesting inherent potential of disrupting the academic business model
altogether.

### Problem &amp; Solution
With this platform, we'd test a hypothesis that a points-based mechanics
that values all parts of the research process equally offers better and
more numerous incentives, provides superior metrics for the totality of
one's contribution to the science, and gives a more rich and detailed
insight into person's importance and influence in the community, thus
offering good objectives for academics to work toward, and in that
process empowering information sharing, diversity of the types of
research, and discussion and collaboration.

Our platform has implications on all bad habits currently present in
academia, and we also further improve on the capability to find and
discover high-quality, relevant academic work by utilizing that same
points-based mechanics to rank and filter content based on its score, by
allowing users to rate content items. This helps the best quality work
appear first, but besides creating an incentive for academics to invest
themselves only into producing original work, by knowing that an
entirety of their contributions is recorded and is being valued, that
also creates incentives to work even on things such as negative studies,
pure replication of the results, datasets collection,... without the
fear of being underappreciated or needing to resort to the rigging of
results. Also, all content is moderated by the community itself, in a
way that members gain privileges based on the amount of earned points so
far, offering yet another set of reasons and good incentives to
contribute, while simultaneously getting rid of poor content, abusive
behavior, and noise.

Concretely, our work includes: setting up a server environment and
database, front-end and back-end infrastructure, building the first set
of self-contained features, and configuring the first version of the
points-based mechanics. After that, we'd introduce scientific niches one
by one to the platform (starting with those technically more proficient,
and ones that we're more familiar with; computer graphics, machine
learning e.g.) and iterate on the things that we learn, such as how to
adjust the balance of the mechanics itself, and how to generally improve
other aspects of the platform. An even later stage would introduce
payments infrastructure that combines different input funding streams,
and pays community members directly, based on the amount of their
contribution and their research's impact.

A paper that evaluates this kind of approach to solving problems in
academia is also being considered.

More detailed overview of the problem &amp; solution at: <a href="https://unfoldresearch.com/map" target="_blank">
  unfoldresearch.com/map
</a>

Product design mockup available at: <a href="https://unfoldresearch.com/mockup" target="_blank">
  unfoldresearch.com/mockup
</a>

### Company
Capital and operating expenses are minimal, and so, a large majority of
the funds would go into salaries. Due to nature of the product, we'd be
operating as a for-profit company with complete ownership (for example,
a steward ownership model). Company doesn't exist currently, as the
entire project is at the pre-prototype stage.

### Contact
Dragan Okanovic (<a href="mailto:dragan.okan@gmail.com">dragan.okan@gmail.com</a> |
<a href="https://abstractalgo.com">website</a>)